[Music]
no no one one of my ex-girlfriends used
to claim that I was like tone-deaf
because my whistling was so bad I'm like
what well you know I'm great if I don't
know I think I think I get the tone
across that you can recognize the song
I'm whistling if you're a regular viewer
on this channel so a lot of the times
when people want to change the way we
express things the way we talk about
things the vocabulary we use in 21st
century culture is for the purposes of
censorship or it's for the purposes of I
guess behavioral engineering try to
change the way people act so one of the
most bizarre examples of this there was
actually a law proposed for New York
City to ban stand-up comedians from
using the n-word like I think it would
have banned anyone at like a public
gathering or ceremony from the N word
something like this but it actually
would have included stand-up comedians I
seem it died in committee
like I said honestly never even googled
it again to see whatever that law but I
remember Chris Rock and a bunch of other
stand-up comedians we're like oh yeah
right you're gonna stop me from using
the n-word this kind of thing but you
understand the ultimate purpose of that
kind of censorship is the the dream is
the fable that you're gonna change human
behavior you're gonna change the
underlying values by changing the words
that mask those values and you can feel
you can feel my my skepticism others as
Shakespeare says you know like a rose by
any other name would smell as sweet
what I got to tell you we can come with
you for a lot of things in life and
whatever the thing being euphemized
about is gonna be the same um but you
know I have a separate reason for why I
often want to change the language we use
in 21st century culture and that is to
avoid self-deception so you know have a
female friend and she asked me
she she asked me a question in which a
crucial phrase was hooking up okay so
I'm this is the intro I'm gonna tell you
it's gonna tell you the scenario bus I
really can't quite cut it down to one
sentence here and I've got to say part
of my feeling is couldn't we ban the
phrase hooking huh not another thing I
want to ban the F word or the S word I
don't want to ban the action but there's
a really strange kind of self-deception
going on in the 21st century you know
revolving around human relationships and
hooking up so this put of a mine partly
for that reason and partly because I had
a conversation today with somebody
somebody who was sincerely inspired by
Jordan Peterson subject for another
video I'm not a fan of Jordan Pearson
but it was interesting again hearing
from someone who really responded
positively to his kind of cranky old man
discourse about monogamy but you know so
he has a kind of hyper monogamous view
of human relations that basically
everything has to be married I don't
know if he even allows sex before
marriage that guy I don't know if he's
taking up if he's taking a hard Catholic
position on that or what he seems to
hint at some of that alright anyway
leaving that aside that also put them on
so this friend of mine you know asked
for my opinion asked him advice and she
said well there's this guy that she's
interested in and that she's to some
extent already involved with and she saw
him with another woman on social media
and he's with this other woman he's
approximately thirty years old I don't
know the woman's age wasn't mentioned in
the anecdote and this other woman he's
spending time with is a single mom with
a kid so there's pictures of him on
social media with the whole family so to
speak right and so she asks him look is
this serious are you in a relationship
with this woman and his answer was no
we're just hooking up
and you know from my perspective I'm
asking like even hypothetically what
would that mean what could that possibly
mean how is it even conceivable that you
could be spending quality time with a
woman and her kid you know what do you
think they don't talk you think they
communicate through hand gestures you
think they mine you think they have no
emotional involvement what exactly is
the illusion or delusion or excuse what
does it mean to be just hooking up now
again no homo no Jordan Peterson
no no false Christian like morality here
but you know there is such a thing in
our culture as just hooking up where
there's no emotion involved and there's
no you don't talk or care about each
other's taste in music or movies
it's called prostitution right so like
but my girlfriend got a little bit upset
about me a couple days ago they're gonna
tell the whole the whole scenario
because she watched a mainstream TV show
called the x-files and she knows I'm not
interested in watching the ex well it's
not that big a deal it's no big deal
like you know we I joked around about it
with her she wasn't really joking he was
pretty upset I was like so you're
secretly watching the x-files and you
didn't want I wouldn't approve this TV
show okay okay okay okay
if you care about someone enough to lie
about the facts but even the opposite if
you care about someone enough that you
even want to know their opinion about a
mainstream TV show you know like oh I
care about your taste in music and
movies this is setting the bar real low
people we're not not getting you the
history and politics and science and
ethics and philosophy here but even at
that level there is no such thing as
hooking up right now on the other hand
okay hypothetically if whether you are
male or female watching this video
whether you are gay or straight if you
just pay someone to pretend to be your
girlfriend or boyfriend for one shameful
night if it's just prostitution and then
they want to talk to you about the
x-files show you may imagine yourself
saying look look homeboy I do not give a
damn what you have to say about the
x-files season six
I am NOT here for that I don't respect
your opinion whether I like the show and
you hate the show or maybe I hate the
show and you love the show no no we are
just hooking up that would be that would
be just hooking up but are you gonna
tell me or are you gonna tell yourself
that it's possible to be involved with
somebody to sleep with them to have sex
with them to eat meals with them to have
conversations with them to babysit their
kid to get to know their family to be
involved in this way and to be quote
unquote just hooking up right this is
why I say to me it's not like censorship
it's not like the N word it's not like
you know trying to eliminate something
for just being noxious I think there's a
really kind of dangerous form of
self-deception here if we're willing to
tell ourselves that in the set that
there even is a category called hooking
up and look I mean you know I've lived
in all these different cultures living
in Thailand is like the world's
strongest argument for not legalizing
prostitution if you think you're the
most liberal person in the world just
live for a chunk of time in Thailand and
look at the social consequences of
living in a country with massive levels
of legalized and normalized prostitution
right societies like Japan even Taiwan
the impacts of prostitution are massive
I want to live in a tolerant society I
don't want to live in some kind of
repressive Catholic or repressed
Muslim society where they really try to
stamp these things out you know they're
all these kinds of things but I think I
mean you know I think there is a very
fundamental yearning in human nature to
be a member of a tribe to be a member of
a clan to be a member of a small group
that's larger than a family because you
know not even in evolutionary time but
in historical time we all get ill we all
get amoebic dysentery we all get even
the common cold and diarrhea if you
don't have people around you who care
for you and love you enough to take care
of you when you're sick if you live in a
society where everybody treats everybody
else like a prostitute where all of your
relationships are transactional or
short-term exchanges of favors even if
it includes flattery and personal
interaction to some extent you know
where everything is commercialized and
commodified to that extent you know
who's gonna take care of you when you're
the one who's sick who would raise your
child
if you die early and who's gonna you
know go through the work of raising
she'll with who's gonna build a home
with you who's gonna care about you in
that way I don't think that tendency is
in any way ineluctably monogamous I
don't think you know Christianity or
Islam got it right but the question of
how do you build meaningful
relationships friendships or otherwise
in the 21st century I think we've got
some stumbling blocks and we can remove
those stumbling blocks but maybe
removing some of the deception and
self-deception that's even built into
this kind of language because the end of
the day we can all pretend we're cool we
can all pretend we don't care we can all
pretend we're just hooking up but
ultimately I think what we have to say
to one another is don't treat me like a
prostitute
I don't want to wake up and feel like
I'm just a prostitute to you and the
odds are neither to you